 
 
May:2025 
 
Level: 3ASS 3ASM 3ASSMT 3ASG                                                      
Duration : 2h30 
 
Mock exam 
Subject 1 
 
                                                      
على المترشح ان يختار احد الموضوعين 
الموضوع الاول 
 
PART ONE: Reading                                                          (15 points) 
A/ Comprehension                                                                                                                                           
(08 pts) 
Read the text carefully then do the activities. 
     
      Technology is not just changing the way we communicate - it’s changing the way we eat too . 
Take social media for example, sharing food Snaps or Instagram, Facebook and Twitter have grown 
into a worldwide phenomenon. Certain influencers have made an entire career out of utilising this 
craze for food on their feeds. 
        Being constantly bombarded with eating routines of influencers on social media, like 
Instagram, can lead to a negative  relationship with food and can even cause us to feel ashamed or 
envious at times. The most recent data from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare showed 
that 17％ of children are overweight, and 7,7％ are obese. This means that nearly 1 in 4 children 
has an increased risk of physical health issues, increased chances of illness and morality in 
adulthood . 
        For restaurant owners, food growers and the retail marketers , the rise of social media has 
influenced what food they sell, how they sell it and even what they should do next. Before 
Instagram , charging 10 ₤ for a sandwich in London was a daylight robbery ; however , now with 
the help of social media, it is a commonly accepted price to pay. 
                Adapted from : 
https://www.idealnutrition.com.au/how-does-technology-influenced-
eating-habits/ 
         
  1.State whether the following statements are true or false.  (2pts) 
     a. Technology is not changing the way we communicate and eat . 
     b .Sometimes we envy the eating routines of influencers on social media. 
     c. Almost 25 % of children are subject to physical health problems. 
     d .Social media has influenced how food is sold. 
 
 2. Identify the paragraph in which it is mentioned « the negative impact of social media on 
people's health  ».   (1pt) 
 
 3. Answer the following questions according to the text . (3,5pts) 
   a. What did some influencers do to take advantage of social media ? 
   b .How can influencers eating routines impact us ? 
   c. Did the rise of social media influence retail marketers ? Justify. 
 
     
www.dzexams.com
 
   4. Who or what do the underlined words refer to in the text ? (1.5) 
  a. It(1§)                               b. Their (1§)                            c.They (3§) 
B/ Text Exploration                                                                                                               (7pts) 
1.Find words from the text or phrases that are opposites in meaning to the following. (1.5)  
a-Partial (1§) ≠                                  b- Honored (2§) ≠                      c- the fall (3§) ≠ 
2. Complete the table :  (1.5) 
 
               Verb                     Noun              Adjective   
 To influence …………………………. ……………………………. 
………………………….. ………………………… attractive 
…………………… Consumption  ………………………………. 
3. Combine each pair of sentences with the connectors given between brackets. Make changes 
where necessary. (2pts) 
a) Influencers create a perfect world. Many teenagers are easily trapped. (Such…that) 
b) People cannot distinguish between real and fake pictures. Instagram pictures are skillfully 
filtered. (B 
ecause) 
c – Followers will be deceived  by influencers . Followers  will check information on social 
media.(Unless)  
 
4. Fill in the gaps with 4 words from the following list. (1pt)  
                                          ashamed  -  Have   -   images - to - attractive  
        Influencers frequently Photoshop their  …..(1)……,changing the way they look and making 
their surroundings more …….(2)……... . Influencers are aware that they are able ……(3)…… sell 
opinions and often  misuse the kind of power they …….(4)…….. 
 
 
Part Two : Written Expression                                                                                       (5pts)  
        Choose ONE of the following topics  
Topic One : Nowadays, the number of social media influencers has considerably increased. You 
have noticed that most of your schoolmates have become  their followers and imitate them blindly . 
Write an opinion article of about 80 to 120 words for your school magazine to raise their awareness 
about the bad effects social media influencers can have on them. 
Make the best use of the following notes : 
Disturb cultural values (identity/ religion / lifestyle…) 
Encourage unethical behaviours. (Smoking/ cheating …) 
Cause family problems (parents / children relationship) 
School problems (reject studies / waste of time / failure)  
Topic two :  Your school is celebrating the 7th of April WORLD HEALTH DAY and you are asked 
to deliver a speech  . In no more than 80  to  120 words  write a speech  about how junk food 
influences  our emotions though we know its harm 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.dzexams.com
 
Correction 
1-website article 
2 – false true  true   true 
3- Answer the questions 
    a-Certain influencers have made an entire career out of utilising this craze for food on their feeds. 
    b- Eating routines of influencers can even cause us to feel ashamed or envious at times. 
   c-Yes , it did social media has influenced what food they sell, how they sell it and even what they 
should do next 
4-In 2 paragraph 
5-. Who or what do the underlined words refer to in the text ? (1.5) 
  a. It(1§)                               b. Their (1§)                            c.They (3§) 
B/ Text Exploration                                                                                                               (7pts) 
1.Find words from the text or phrases that are opposites in meaning to the following. (1.5)  
a-Partial (1§) ≠   entire                                b- Honored (2§) ≠   ashamed                   c- the fall (3§) 
≠the rise 
2. Complete the table :  (1.5) 
 
               Verb                     Noun              Adjective   
 To influence influence influential 
To attract attraction attractive 
Consume Consumption  consumptive 
3. Combine each pair of sentences with the connectors given between brackets. Make changes 
where necessary. (2pts) 
a) Influencers create such a perfect world that many teenagers are easily trapped.  
b) People cannot distinguish between real and fake pictures because Instagram pictures are 
skillfully filtered.  
c – Followers will be deceived  by influencers .unless they  check information on social media. 
 
4. Fill in the gaps with 4 words from the following list. (1pt)  
                                                  ashamed  -  Have   -   images - to – attractive - 
        Influencers frequently Photoshop their  images, changing the way they look and making their 
surroundings more attractive. Influencers are aware that they are able to sell opinions and often  
misuse the kind of power they have 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.dzexams.com
 
 
 
على المترشح ان يختار احد الموضوعين 
الموضوع الثاني 
 
Part one: Reading            
 A/COMPREHENSION  8pts                                                                                                              
Read the text carefully to do the following activities.   
    (15pts  )                                                                                     
           NASA’s DAVINCI mission, named after the artist and scientist Leonardo Davinci, is 
scheduled to launch in the late 2020s, probably in June 2029. The mission will study the origin, 
evolution, and present state of Venus in unprecedented detail. The mission’s goal is to help answer 
longstanding questions about our neighboring planet , especially whether Venus was ever wet and 
habitable like Earth.  
         
       The DAVINCI spacecraft   will carry an atmospheric descent probe which is a scientific 
instrument carried by spacecraft that separates and falls into the atmosphere of a planet until 
reaching its surface. After exploring the upper of Venus’s atmosphere, the spacecraft will drop its 
probe to the surface. Made of titanium, one of the world’s strongest metals, the spherical probe is 
about 1 meter, wide and will be built to withstand the extreme environment on Venus .On its one 
hour-long descent trip, the probe will take thousands of measurements and snap up-close images of 
the surface as soon as it emerges below the clouds, since the probe may not survive landing. 
         
      Ultimately, DAVINCI mission shows the ongoing pursuit to understand the universe. It not only 
represents a scientific endeavor but also a testament to human curiosity and ingenuity. 
Adapted from: http://ssed.gsfc.nasa gov/davinci/mission 
 
  
  1.The text is : a) a web article     b) a book extract     c) a magazine article   (1pt) 
  
  2.Say whether the following statements are true or false : (2pts) 
a-NASA’s DAVINCI will certainly launch in June 2029. 
b-The probe is created with the most solid metal. 
c-It is possible that the probe will not survive landing. 
d-Understanding the universe is already a completed task. 
 
  3.Answer the following questions according to the text : (3,5pts) 
a-What is the purpose of NASA’s DAVINCI mission ? 
b-Is the probe very wide ? justify from the text. 
c-How long will the probe take to reach the surface of Venus ? 
 4.Find what or who the underlined words in the text refer to. (1.5pts) 
    a) Our neighboring planet (§1) …..                   b) Its(§2)   …                 c) It (3§)… 
 
 
 
 
 
B/Text exploration :                                                                                                          (7pts) 
1. Find words in the text whose definitions follow : (1,5pts) 
 
a) A vehicle used for travelling in space. (2§) 
b) All existing matter and space including galaxies, stars ,and planets. (3§). 
www.dzexams.com
 
 
2.Divide the following words into roots and affixes. (1.5pts) 
                    Neighboring - measurement – unprecedented  
                Prefix                 Root                 Suffix 
   
3. Ask questions that the underlined words answer.  (2pts)  
a) The DAVINCI spacecraft will carry an atmospheric descent probe. 
 
b) NASA’s DAVINCI mission will launch in the late 2020s.  
 
4. Reorder the following sentences to get a coherent passage. (2pts) 
   a-The goal of these trips is to gather necessary information about some planets, 
   b-This reflects humans’ desire to learn about their universe. 
  c-Space agencies are planning for many space trips in the future. 
  d-which  will help in determining whether they can be habitable. 
 
Part Two : Written Expression :                                                                             (5pts) 
Choose ONE of the following topics. 
Topic One : 
        You have recently watched an interview with an astronaut who claimed that space trips are 
useful and brought many advantages, but you were not convinced with his thoughts and arguments. 
Write a speech about 80 to 120 words that you will deliver to your classmates at a scientific 
conference in your school in which you denounce the negative effects of space exploration on 
humanity. 
Make the best use of the following notes : 
-Astronauts face health risk/ increased cancer risk. 
-Huge amounts of money are spent . 
-Money is needed in third world countries. 
-Medical research should be encourage instead. 
Topic Two : 
  Some businessmen prioritize making profits and earning money above all other considerations 
such as acting ethically. Write an article of about 80 to 120 words to your local newspaper to 
explain the importance of ethics in business.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.dzexams.com
 
 
 
 
The text is : a) a web article     1pt 
  
  2.Say whether the following statements are true or false : (2pts) 
a-NASA’s DAVINCI will certainly launch in June 2029. FALSE 
b-The probe is created with the most solid metal.  TRUE 
c-It is possible that the probe will not survive landing. TRUE 
d-Understanding the universe is already a completed task. FALSE 
 
  3.Answer the following questions according to the text : (3,5pts) 
a The purpose of NASA’s DAVINCI mission is to help answer longstanding questions about our 
neighboring planet , especially whether Venus was ever wet and habitable like Earth.  
 
b-Yes , it is the spherical probe is about 1 meter, wide and will be built to withstand the extreme 
environment on Venus 
c-it will take one hour to reach the surface of Venus. 
 4.Find what or who the underlined words in the text refer to. (1.5pts) 
    a) Our neighboring planet (§1) Venus                   b) Its(§2)   probe  spacecraft probe 
             c) It (3§ Davinci mission 
 
 
 
 
B/Text exploration :                                                                                                          (7pts) 
1. Find words in the text whose definitions follow : (1,5pts) 
 
a) A vehicle used for travelling in space. (2§) spacecraft 
b) All existing matter and space including galaxies, stars ,and planets. (3§). universe 
 
2.Divide the following words into roots and affixes. (1.5pts) 
                    Neighboring - measurement – unprecedented  
                Prefix                 Root                 Suffix 
////// 
//////////// 
un 
Neighbor 
Measure 
precedent 
Ing 
Ment 
ed 
3. Ask questions that the underlined words answer.  (2pts)  
a) The DAVINCI spacecraft will carry an atmospheric descent probe. 
Who will carry an atmospheric descent probe? 
the spherical probe is about 1 meter, wide and will be built to withstand the extreme environment on 
Venus 
b) NASA’s DAVINCI mission will launch in the late 2020s.  
when will NASA’s DAVINCI mission launch ? 
 
4. Reorder the following sentences to get a coherent passage. (2pts) 
   a-The goal of these trips is to gather necessary information about some planets,2 
   b-This reflects humans’ desire to learn about their universe.4 
  c-Space agencies are planning for many space trips in the future.1 
  d-which  will help in determining whether they can be habitable.3 
 
Part Two : Written Expression :                                             
www.dzexams.com